the most fundamental principle of modern
American jurisprudence on censorship is
that censorship should not have a
chilling effect on political discourse
now I have come out boldly and said in a
climate that rewards people for
pretending they don't approve of any
censorship whatsoever that yes I do
approve of censorship that is very
fundamental that YouTube and porn tube
are two different channels so I'm not
sure porn tube is a real website it
probably is
hey Rick there was red tube I think is
the whatever it could look you know that
you create distinctions between
different types of websites and that the
distinctions are maintained by
censorship so another example at a
really weird conversation with a
longtime supporter a fan of the channel
because she was shocked that I approved
of censorship on Instagram the Instagram
prevents nudity as it drew wait a minute
do you think it's hard to find a website
where you can post a picture yourself
naked like just google it Google naked
woman you know that you'll find five or
six it's completely crucial for the
business model of Instagram what it's
trying to do that they censor what
people can upload so that it's a website
with no nudity and the results are kind
of weird you know yeah a lot of what you
see there is kind of 90% naked but not
quite naked well those the rules that
play by if they wanted to they could
change the rules again and get rid of
all pictures of people in bathing suits
they could take you to size those the
rules but whatever my point is that all
social and political discourse exists
within a certain stated limits ideally
those limits are transparent and simple
and everyone can understand them and
they're easily enforceable on YouTube
they are not on YouTube in the last five
years we started off with a set of rules
that were a bus Kotori
unclear opaque open to interpretation
and reinterpretation and that were
enforced you know in a way that
kept people guessing kept people tried
what what is this Community Guidelines
supposed to mean now the ultimate
problem the ultimate price of those bad
rules and bad enforcement is precisely
that it has a chilling effect on
political speech okay I don't care if it
has a chilling effect on nudity there
are other websites where you can post
yourself naked we can put up naked
videos look hypothetically that could be
a problem
we could be living in a parallel
universe where it was just so difficult
to find pornography was so difficult for
people to upload amateur pornography
themselves and there was like a
political struggle to try to create and
defend websites where that was possible
all right that's not the reality in the
english-speaking world in 2019
there's ubiquitous access that kind of
we don't have to worry about that what
we do have to worry about is exactly the
chilling effect on political use of free
speech which is in the American
Constitution that's why freedom of
speech is protected okay freedom speech
is actually not protected so you can go
out and claim that drinking holy water
is gonna cure pneumonia and that's a
real problem the United States of
America it's less of a problem in a
country like Germany there's a different
constitutional tradition different legal
tradition in the United States of
America members of any religion whether
Christianity Hinduism or Satanism can
say they have magical water that's gonna
cure your cancer or cure the pneumonia
and sell it to you and make money and
because they call it religion it's then
outside the bounds of what the
government force that's a real problem
pseudoscience phony cures for medicine
but that's actually not what the whole
structure freedom of speech exists for
it exists by and for politics it's a
political concept with a political
purpose that's the matters and I myself
have experienced the chilling effect of
how broken YouTube's system is for
censorship and categorization content in
their latest announcements this is
yesterday they put up a new policy let
me just double check that it was
yesterday June 5th I assume on the New
York Times own today's
six yesterday YouTube put up their new
announcement a new policy which is only
gonna make things worse what they're
telling you is what they're gonna do is
keep on assigning channels due to a
blacklist a blacklist that's not
transparent that you can't see that you
can't appeal this is totally different
from the kind of censorship that goes on
at patreon in the past have sorry to the
fact that patreon is a much much better
system and the reality is that about 10%
of their staff costs are enforcing the
those mechanism censorship patreon is
playing a totally different game by
chosen rules
at YouTube what happened to me was I
made a video criticizing excoriated
harshly criticizing a neo-nazi on
YouTube and when I had the clips of the
other side of the neo-nazi speaking I
had text written at the bottom of the
screen reminding you explaining to you
pointing out I am only quoting this as
part of a critique directed at I'm
holding this in the middle of telling
you how awful it is okay and my video
was taken down for hate speech this
happened to me twice that I remember
with two different videos was completely
obvious that my purpose was pointing the
finger saying hey don't kid yourself
this guy is a neo-nazi in one case he
was a guy who openly stated you know
excuses for Adolf Hitler that he
basically supported the Holocaust you
know he was a straight-up Nazi in that
sense the other guy was more of a 21st
century white supremacist not attaching
his theory to Adolphe Hitler but a
different kind of racist he was more of
a British Empire racist white
supremacist I was pouring the fingers
saying hey look you may not know it and
you know what I got email from people
thanking me because some of those people
they were fans of those other channels
and they didn't realize the extent to
which those channels were neo-nazis
white supremacist racist like even on
that basic level the critique served a
real function one of them Corey McCarthy
that guy was giving fitness and health
advice and making money and that time in
a pretty
big audience he came as a shock to a lot
of people Wow they thought he was a good
guy they thought he was a moral guy that
he thought it was a bodybuilder who
weighed a healthy diet and they realized
whoa there's this whole other side of
his career
this guy is seriously some kind of
racist right-wing political nutcase
so critique is important and the problem
it's not just poor little old me it's
not just oh I lost a few bucks from that
moment from the moment I had two videos
on my channel censored as quote-unquote
hate speech because I was going after I
was criticizing hate speech mysteriously
the number of views and viewers on my
channel have become a lot harder to get
I assume it's it's exactly what they
described in their announcement June 5th
2019 that they're gonna discourage
people from visiting those channels that
they're not going to recommend their
videos etc etc well he's I'm on the
receiving end of that so that that day
that may have crippled my career and it
still has a chilling effect on my
freedom of speech
I was watching videos about a week ago
now again from kind of softcore white
supremacist neo Nazi types not well I
mean the ones that are really obvious
maybe aren't as important to criticize I
was watching a video from the Pettibone
sisters petit born sisters I forget
their names and their their official
position on immigration and you know and
you know those are people who are just
trying to ride the fence where they're
not quite over the line into outright
overt
what that's where it's really important
to engage you critique and I've put
together some clips and I want to do the
video I think it's something
philosophically important discuss and
politically important discuss but I know
I mean I know I can get punished by
YouTube as if I'm guilty of the
political position I'm quoting and
criticizing even though I'm doing
something positive when engaged in that
critique now would it be possible to
have that level of censorship of
political speech than YouTube maybe
maybe possible if they if they devoted a
lot of money and a lot of staff to it
maybe but I could only say maybe I see
how poorly censorship works within
universities
within a university department of
political science and that kind of it
works very very poorly what you need for
censorship to work is to have very clear
lines drawn in the sand that apply to
everyone equally and consistently I had
an employer he didn't believe in this
idea that the age of 18 should be the
age of consent he you know whatever is
he's an [ __ ] and I said to him you
know and nobody had ever really
challenged his view on this plus you
know he owned the company it's a very
wealthy successful businessman I think
nobody challenged his view on anything
period and I said - okay so your
[ __ ] idea his idea was that like a
woman should be sexually mature when
they finished their period basically
once they once there once they're
fertile once they've had their period as
okay sorry
so how do you think Instagram how do you
think YouTube how do think anyone is
going to enforce that rule like the idea
of having agent I don't really care if
it's 17 18 or 19 could be raised to 90
instead of 18 it could be lowered to 7
news day whatever you decide on a year
and you say this is the rule this is the
law everyone has to a bit either you
have a driver's license or a passport
that says you're 18 years old or you
don't and that's it and it has nothing
to do with justice it has nothing to do
with accuracy or science it doesn't have
to do with a science of when you finish
going through puberty there's nothing
new that it's about having one law one
rule that can apply to everyone equally
anything that is equal is arbitrary
arbitrary is not accurate it's not
biology it's not justice what's
arbitrary is radically incompatible with
justice all right there's nothing to do
with that maybe one person mentally is
completely ready to do hardcore porn at
19 and someone else is ready it's 16
somewhere else wouldn't be ready till 25
it's not about psychology it's none of
anything like that
and again to author pick reminder is why
do these arbitrary rules exist what is
the point of creating them all right
it's not just to prevent and exclude
some it it's not just to get rid of porn
it's not just to repress people who are
under 18 okay
it's positively to support the political
use of freedom of speech all right it's
to create and sustain the platform
that's necessary so that we can engage
in mutual examination mutual scrutiny
mutual analysis and that analysis can
and must include the use of coarse
language and insults it absolutely must
political cross examination whether it's
you know of right wing versus left wing
left wing versus right wing whether or
not it's just telling your own life
story just sit down
autobiographically and say hey here's
something that traumatized me here's
what I went through here's my
perspective and to share that on the
historical record for your fellow man
okay I said this recently reality is an
acquired taste it's rough people coming
on YouTube and talking about their real
experience whether explicitly political
or not it's never going to be smooth the
way a made-for-tv drama is gonna be it's
going to contain violence and broken
hearts and tears and swear words you
know what I mean
even if it's just talking about why why
you dropped out of school we dropped at
a baking college I was really heated up
about that talk about your miscarriage
talk about your infant being diagnosed
with some horrible disease and dying in
its crib talking about and then maybe
again all these things have a political
importance then maybe you're going to
talk about the incompetence of the
medical doctors and how the hospital is
organized now you think your baby could
have survived if things were better that
stuff really matters it really really
matters it matters now more than ever
and it's it's what YouTube is doing they
think they're bailing out the ship and
they're bailing it in all they're doing
is scooping more seawater and putting it
into this sinking ship YouTube you don't
understand how censorship is supposed to
work this is a tool that's powerful and
important and it can be used for good
and it's like seeing a kid that's taking
a pencil that could be used
beautiful picture and instead you're
sticking it in your own eye